Date - 24 May 2022
Tags - #Health, #Food, #Housing, #USA, #Money, #2022
## The [[2020s]] have been a turbulent decade.
The temperatures are rising, the world is warring, and there is a Virus which hasn't died down yet. The world can go into a warring monstrosity any day, or it can turn into a utopia.

Only one thing can decide this, **Building more Houses.**

## The Problem
Researchers estimate that the USA lost over 15 trillion dollars worth of [[GDP]] in 2015. While the west bickers about removing a square foot off a "Historic" car park. [[China]] builds 3 cities and 10,000 Kms of Highways.

By building affordable houses for all classes, we can remove
- [[Poverty]]
- climate change
- inequality
- Poor public health
- economic stagnation
- crime
- the cost of living

### Poverty
After the [[World War 1]], houses were a commodity and the govt. as well as private players began churning them out to keep the supply high and the price low. But after the 1980s, the government stopped building houses. Now, as a result, the new houses cost a fortune. The mortgages/rents have increased their share in a person's expenses. The average man in the 1960s spent more in pubs than their rent/mortgage.

By building more houses the supply will increase and the prices will decrease. Thus the share of rent/mortgage in a person's income will decrease. This will help them spend more (increased real income) to get out of poverty.

### Homelessness
If we look at the capital of [[Finland]], it's the only country in Europe where the rate of homelessness is falling. In the capital of [[Helsinki]], only one Homeless shelter is present. The Government built affordable houses for them and shifted the homeless.
This saves the govt. around 15,000 pounds per homeless person, as they no longer have to rely on the social services.

### Climate Change
The [[Suburbs]] are a failure, causing damage to the environment. The Suburbs harm the climate by being too far from everywhere, to go anywhere you have to use a car. The utility supply is also hard as long and massive pipes have to extend out from the main city. The sterile lawns also don't have much in the way of biodiversity.

Building High-density homes decreases fuel consumption. As the people are closer together and the people will walk to the stores.

### Improving Public Health
##### Physical Health
In the Netherlands, the govt. builds Suburbs with houses which are close together and spacious. It also allows small shops and restaurants in the suburbs. this makes people want to walk more as everything is so near. The narrow roads encourage the use of bikes as it's a hassle to drive a car there. This results in a far cleaner environment. This improves the physical health of people.

##### Mental Health
If you look at the houses for rent in the megacities today. You'll see that they are borderline depressing, with sky-high rent. God forbid if we have another [[Pandemic]], it might kill the mental health of the people living in these houses.
The average amount of space for a mentally able house is 76 sq. meters.

### Economic Decline
As said earlier,
> Researchers estimate that the USA lost over 15 trillion dollars worth of [[GDP]] in 2015

The Megacities like New York, London etc., don't allow the building of new houses. Thus the people who have talent and not the means can't enter them. The people living in these cities also have low productivity. A large part of the wealth generated by them is sucked out by the landlords.
If these big cities allowed more houses building. The real income of the people will increase as rent will fall due to higher supply.

### Population Decline
if we look at the fertility rate of Hong Kong which is around 1. This means that the population will fall. This phenomenon is present in many developed countries albeit to a lower end.
The housing crisis is the main root of this population crisis. Because as the rate of rent increases an average family doesn't have enough money to raise a child. All their money goes to the rent.
Studies have shown that over 150,000 children have not been born due to rent increases from the 1950s to 2015.

### Security
As the prices of homes increase the newer generation has to cut off their hobbies, for a shelter over their head. This drives the young people to extremism.
This extremism leads to riots and wars. these riots also affect the political climate of other countries.